dm: add error binlog filter description (#15306)
pingcap/docs: dm/dm-binlog-event-filter.md

# TiDB Data Migration Binlog Event Filter

> TiDB Data Migration (DM) provides the binlog event filter feature to filter out, report errors, or only receive specified types of binlog events for some schemas or tables. For example, you can filter out all `TRUNCATE TABLE` or `INSERT` events. The binlog event filter feature is more fine-grained than the [block and allow lists](/dm/dm-block-allow-table-lists.md) feature.

Author: ```suggestion
TiDB Data Migration (DM) provides the binlog event filter feature to filter out, block and report errors, or only receive specified types of binlog events for some schemas or tables. For example, you can filter out all `TRUNCATE TABLE` or `INSERT` events. The binlog event filter feature is more fine-grained than the [block and allow lists](/dm/dm-block-allow-table-lists.md) feature.
```

    | `all`             |      | Includes all the events below |
    | `all dml`         |      | Includes all DML events below |
    | `all ddl`         |      | Includes all DDL events below |

>     | `incompatible ddl changes` |      | Includes all incompatible DDL events     |

Author: ```suggestion
    | `incompatible ddl changes` |      | Includes all incompatible DDL events, i.e. DDLs that can cause data loss     |
```

    | `none`            |      | Includes none of the events below |
    | `none ddl`        |      | Includes none of the DDL events below |
    | `none dml`        |      | Includes none of the DML events below |
    | `insert`          | DML  | The `INSERT` DML event              |
    | `update`          | DML  | The `UPDATE` DML event              |
    | `delete`          | DML  | The `DELETE` DML event              |
    | `create database` | DDL  | The `CREATE DATABASE` DDL event         |
    | `drop database`   | incompatible DDL  | The `DROP DATABASE` DDL event           |
    | `create table`    | DDL  | The `CREATE TABLE` DDL event      |
    | `create index`    | DDL  | The `CREATE INDEX` DDL event          |
    | `drop table`      | incompatible DDL  | The `DROP TABLE` DDL event              |
    | `truncate table`  | incompatible DDL  | The `TRUNCATE TABLE` DDL event          |
    | `rename table`    | incompatible DDL  | The `RENAME TABLE` DDL event            |
    | `drop index`      | incompatible DDL  | The `DROP INDEX` DDL event           |
    | `alter table`     | DDL  | The `ALTER TABLE` DDL event           |

>     | `value range decrease` | incompatible DDL  | A DDL statement that makes a column field smaller, such as the `ALTER TABLE MODIFY COLUMN` statement that changes `VARCHAR(20)` to `VARCHAR(10)`  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    | `value range decrease` | incompatible DDL  | A DDL statement that makes a column field value range smaller, such as the `ALTER TABLE MODIFY COLUMN` statement that changes `VARCHAR(20)` to `VARCHAR(10)`  |
```

>     | `value range decrease` | incompatible DDL  | A DDL statement that makes the value range of a column field smaller, such as the `ALTER TABLE MODIFY COLUMN` statement that changes `VARCHAR(20)` to `VARCHAR(10)`  |

Author: ```suggestion
    | `value range decrease` | incompatible DDL  | A DDL statement that decreases the value range of a column field, such as the `ALTER TABLE MODIFY COLUMN` statement that changes `VARCHAR(20)` to `VARCHAR(10)`  |
```

>     | `precision decrease` | incompatible DDL  | A DDL statement that reduces the precision of a column field, such as the `ALTER TABLE MODIFY COLUMN` statement that changes `Decimal(10, 2)` to `Decimal(10, 1)`  |

Author: ```suggestion
    | `precision decrease` | incompatible DDL  | A DDL statement that decreases the precision of a column field, such as the `ALTER TABLE MODIFY COLUMN` statement that changes `Decimal(10, 2)` to `Decimal(10, 1)`  |
```

    | `modify column` | incompatible DDL  | A DDL statement that changes the type of a column field, such as the `ALTER TABLE MODIFY COLUMN` statement that changes `INT` to `VARCHAR` |
    | `rename column` | incompatible DDL  | A DDL statement that changes the name of a column, such as the `ALTER TABLE RENAME COLUMN` statement|
    | `rename index` | incompatible DDL  | A DDL statement that changes the index name, such as the `ALTER TABLE RENAME INDEX` statement |
    | `drop column` | incompatible DDL  | A DDL statement that drops a column from a table, such as the `ALTER TABLE DROP COLUMN` statement |
    | `drop index` | incompatible DDL  | A DDL statement that drops an index in a table, such as the `ALTER TABLE DROP INDEX` statement |

>     | `truncate table partition` | incompatible DDL  | A DDL statement that truncates a partition in a table, such as the `ALTER TABLE TRUNCATE PARTITION` statement |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    | `truncate table partition` | incompatible DDL  | A DDL statement that removes all data from a specified partition, such as the `ALTER TABLE TRUNCATE PARTITION` statement |
```

    | `drop primary key` | incompatible DDL  | A DDL statement that drops the primary key, such as the `ALTER TABLE DROP PRIMARY KEY` statement |
    | `drop unqiue key` | incompatible DDL  | A DDL statement that drops a unique key, such as the `ALTER TABLE DROP UNIQUE KEY` statement |
    | `modify default value` | incompatible DDL  | A DDL statement that modifies a column's default value, such as the `ALTER TABLE CHANGE DEFAULT` statement |
    | `modify constraint` | incompatible DDL  | A DDL statement that modifies the constraint, such as the `ALTER TABLE ADD CONSTRAINT` statement |
    | `modify columns order` | incompatible DDL  | A DDL statement that modifies the order of the columns, such as the `ALTER TABLE CHANGE AFTER` statement |

>     | `modify charset` | incompatible DDL  | A DDL statement that modifies a column's charset, such as the `ALTER TABLE MODIFY CHARSET` statement |

Author: ```suggestion
    | `modify charset` | incompatible DDL  | A DDL statement that modifies the charset of a column, such as the `ALTER TABLE MODIFY CHARSET` statement |
```

    | `modify collation` | incompatible DDL  | A DDL statement that modifies a column collation, such as the `ALTER TABLE MODIFY COLLATE` statement |
    | `remove auto increment` | incompatible DDL  | A DDL statement that removes a auto-incremental key |
    | `modify storage engine` | incompatible DDL  | A DDL statement that modifies the table storage engine, such as the `ALTER TABLE ENGINE = MyISAM` statement |

>     | `reorganize table partition` | incompatible DDL  | A DDL statement that reorganizes the table partition, such as the `ALTER TABLE REORGANIZE PARTITION` statement |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    | `reorganize table partition` | incompatible DDL  | A DDL statement that reorganizes partitions in a table, such as the `ALTER TABLE REORGANIZE PARTITION` statement |
```

    | `rebuild table partition` | incompatible DDL  | A DDL statement that rebuilds the table partition, such as the `ALTER TABLE REBUILD PARTITION` statement |

>     | `exchange table partition` | incompatible DDL  | A DDL statement that exchanges the table partition, such as the `ALTER TABLE EXCHANGE PARTITION` statement |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    | `exchange table partition` | incompatible DDL  | A DDL statement that exchanges a partition between two tables, such as the `ALTER TABLE EXCHANGE PARTITION` statement |
```

>     | `reorganize table partiton` | incompatible DDL  | A DDL statement that reorganizes the table partiton, such as the `ALTER TABLE REORGANIZE PARTITION` statement |
>     | `rebuild table partiton` | incompatible DDL  | A DDL statement that rebuilds the table partiton, such as the `ALTER TABLE REBUILD PARTITION` statement |
>     | `exchange table partiton` | incompatible DDL  | A DDL statement that exchanges the table partiton, such as the `ALTER TABLE EXCHANGE PARTITION` statement |
>     | `coalesce table partiton` | incompatible DDL  | A DDL statement that coalesces the table partiton, such as the `ALTER COALESCE PARTITION` statement |

Author: ```suggestion
    | `reorganize table partition` | incompatible DDL  | A DDL statement that reorganizes the table partition, such as the `ALTER TABLE REORGANIZE PARTITION` statement |
    | `rebuild table partition` | incompatible DDL  | A DDL statement that rebuilds the table partition, such as the `ALTER TABLE REBUILD PARTITION` statement |
    | `exchange table partition` | incompatible DDL  | A DDL statement that exchanges the table partition, such as the `ALTER TABLE EXCHANGE PARTITION` statement |
    | `coalesce table partition` | incompatible DDL  | A DDL statement that coalesces the table partition, such as the `ALTER COALESCE PARTITION` statement |
```

>     | `coalesce table partition` | incompatible DDL  | A DDL statement that coalesces the table partition, such as the `ALTER COALESCE PARTITION` statement |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    | `coalesce table partition` | incompatible DDL  | A DDL statement that decreases the number of partitions in a table, such as the `ALTER COALESCE PARTITION` statement |
```

    sql-pattern: ["ALTER\\s+TABLE[\\s\\S]*ADD\\s+PARTITION", "ALTER\\s+TABLE[\\s\\S]*DROP\\s+PARTITION"]
    action: Ignore
```

### Report errors on some DDL statements

> If you need to report errors on DDL statements for some upstream operations, use the following settings:

Author: ```suggestion
If you need to block and report errors on DDL statements generated by some upstream operations before the DM replicates data to TiDB, you can use the following settings:
```

> If you need to block and report errors on DDL statements generated by some upstream operations before the DM replicates data to TiDB, you can use the following settings:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to block and report errors on DDL statements generated by some upstream operations before the DM replicates them to TiDB, you can use the following settings:
```
